Labyrinth is an experiment on making a game that learns and procedurally generates a meaningful story. A general sense of exploration should be coupled and contrasted with a pervading sense of fear. Do not mistake this fear as an element of the game: it should be generated within the player explicitly through game mechanics. The game itself is expressionless, faceless: a creature of darkness. Thus, no character has a face or voice. The only sounds are those of the physical realm. The smack of metal on flesh, the click of a flashlight, the grating of a sliding wall. The environment is alive. It moves, it wills. There is a clear conflict between the player and the environment. It is not player versus enemies in a house. It is player versus enemies versus house. The gameplay is that of survival: how long can you last in the house before succumbing to mortality? The player must maintain body and mind. Body is not a numeric measurement of health but is closer to reality in that limbs and organs become injured and crippled. The mind is a measure of sanity that impresses an emotion of fear on to the emotionless environment, turning the unbiased judge of darkness in to a more sinister shadow as the player approaches defeat. The spirit is driven purely by the player's constructed fear and makes no formal appearance in-game other than to punish stagnancy. Generally speaking, the player rarely observes the formation of the house. Where he looks, it already is there; he must discover for himself the generative and changing properties of his environment. This does not mean he will not witness change: these glimpses provide moments of tension to build on the fear of the player. This is descriptive of most fear-building exercises practiced in this game: slow, deliberate exploration broken by moments of rapid tension and high stress for the player. Most encounters carry the risk of death and defeat for the player. The player will understand and respect his own fragility in the house. The fear is thus two-fold: The sudden jump-scare terror of the high tension moments coupled with the slow building and realization of the player's morality demanding an observational caution. The house will employ traps. Walls that snap together, crushing limbs; floors that give way in to darkness; cramped dead ends.

The Basilisk is a boss with a grid for an arena. He surrounds the grid with his body, directing his head inward from the top-center. His attacks involve lunging strikes that always cripple and a stare that paralyzes the player over time. The player may do minor damage to his armored body all the way around the arena, but hitting the head will do the most damage. The player may also cripple the basilisk's eyes, negating his ability to paralyze. His movements produce a heavy hissing sound. (See: Harry Potter)

The Emerald Widow is a boss with a web for an arena. She surrounds the arena with thick webbings that cannot be penetrated. She hangs from a single ropy strand in the top middle or she drops to the arena floor. She attacks by producing splats of slowing web and by attempting to stab or bite the player with her legs and fangs. Her fangs contain a venom that does damage over time and that greatly reduces the player's sanity. Her movements produce a loud rustling and her spinneret sounds like a shrieking violin.

My Shadow's Reflection is a boss with no arena. Instead, it endlessly chases the player around. It is extremely difficult to hit, often fading in to the darkness to avoid attacks. It attacks with quick, short jabbing leaps that buffet the player away. They do little damage, as if they were hits from a small child, but they can occur in rapid succession. A constant chattering and multitudinous laughter are produced by this boss. (See: Majora's Mask)

A Shade is a small creature characterized more as an absence of light than as a physical being. As a Minor, it looks like a wisp of inky smoke culminating in a large, bald, skeletal head atop two arms and shoulders rippling with muscle and sinew. It crawls quickly after prey, leaping and gnashing at anything in reach. The Major Shades are four to five times larger and possess a torso and legs, looking simian in form and movement. While both forms are fast, the Minors are weak and multitudinous while the Majors are almost always alone with their Minor spawn. Their movements produce a crackling sound. (See: Bullymog-Borderlands 2, Shadowling-Diablo 3)

A Gloomrat is a large, festering creature that cripples with the bacteria in its bite. It scurries around, generally running from conflict but becoming viciously aggressive when protecting young or when cornered. A pattering of its feet on the floor is the only sound this creature makes. (See: It's just a big fucking rat)

The Avian is a boss with an arena riddled with deep pits. The arena is surrounded by wide, uncrossable chasms. He is a humanoid with large, black wings that beat gusts of air at the player. He also slashes with large, hook-clawed hands and summons flocks of Ink Ravens. His wings may be crippled to slow his movements. His sounds are the flutter and whoosh of wings and loud, shrieking caws.

An Ink Raven is a black, fast bird that swoops out from the shadows like some fucking bat or some shit.

A Spiderling is a little spider that likes to swarm.

The Behold of the Eye is a passive item that causes items and other loot to glow, both producing light and making them visible through walls.

The Solar Flare is an active item that expands a ring of light out from the player, briefly illuminating the entire nearby area.

Glowsticks are collectible single-use items that produce light for a brief-moderate amount of time. They can be held, dropped, or thrown.

Fishing Line is a collectible single-use item that leaves a trail of line to save sections of the house for an extended period of time, preventing rooms from despawning when they are out of sight.

The Blinkstone is an active item that instantly teleports the player a short distance. The player may only blink over walls if there is light at the target destination.

The Scaled Shield is a weapon that can be used to block attacks and bash enemies, briefly stunning them. When not in use, it passively blocks attacks to the player's back.

The Spinneret is a utility item that works like fishing line except that it lasts longer and it slows enemies.

The Inktalons are a weapon that causes the player's melee attacks to rend enemies, resulting in high damage and increased chance to cripple.

Ammo is a collectible single-use item that allows guns and other projectile weapons to be used. Special ammos may be found for specific weapons such as Silver Bolts for the crossbow.

The Pistol, Shotgun, Crossbow, Flare Gun, and Assault Rifle are all weapons that can expend Ammo. Their special ammo types are Fragmenting Bullets, Solid Slugs, Silver Bolts, Napalm Flares, and FMJ Rounds.

The Eversack is a passive item that allows the player to carry an unlimited amount of items and equipment. Furthermore, carry weight no longer incurs a movespeed penalty.

Passive: Behold of the Eye, Scaled Shield, Eversack
Utility: Glowsticks, Fishing Line, Spinneret, Special Ammo?, Traps?
Active: Solar Flare, Blinkstone
Weapon: Scaled Shield, Inktalons, Pistol, Shotgun, Crossbow, Flare Gun, Assault Rifle
Other: Ammo, First Aid Supplies, Currency?, Upgrade Materials?

Combat rules are as follows:
-Taking damage occurs per-body section; the direction the player faces and the direction of the damage source determines whether it is a hit to the Head, L/R Arm, Torso, or L/R Leg.
-If a body section is hit hard enough, often enough, or enough times in a short period of time, it will become crippled.
-A crippled body part will debuff the player; one arm slows melee attacks and makes projectiles less accurate, two arms disables the player's ability to attack, one leg slows the player, two legs almost immobilizes the player, the head reduces the player's vision, and the torso reduces carry capacity and turn rate.
-If a crippled body section is hit hard enough, often enough, or enough times in a short period of time, it will become mortally wounded.
-A mortal wound will give the player a short amount of time to apply first aid before killing the player.

Revised prototype/simpler/better combat rules:
-Taking damage is no longer per-body.
-Being hit hard enough, often enough, or enough times in a short period of time will cripple a random body part, applying a random debuff and desiring first aid.
-Being hit hard enough, often enough, or enough times while the player has at least one crippled body part will result in a mortal wound, requiring first aid.

Keyboard Commands:
1-5: Quick-Use utility/active items.
Spacebar: Roll.
M1: Fire equipped weapon/melee attack.
M2: Melee equipped weapon/heavy melee attack.
Scroll: Cycle equipped weapon.
WASD: Walk.
Shift+WASD: Run.
R: Reload.
H: Apply First Aid to crippled body section.
E: Open the backpack/interact.
Mouse: Aim.
U: Upgrade equipment?